AWS :
    It stands for Amazon Web Service and it provides cloud services like storage, security, networking and many more.
    AWS is popular for having global infrastructure for resilience, high performance and security.
    
    AWS is Pay-As-You-Go service, meaning no upfront cost.
    Pricing are based on computation power use, data storage, number of requests handled etc.

Policy V/S Permission   :
    Policies are JSON documents defining what can be done and what can not.
    Permissions are results of these policies. 
        ex.,
            A developer has a policy.
            According to policy, developer can read data.
            So, permission would be he can read data. 

    Policies are rules while permissions are results (requests are denied or accepted).

IAM (Identity Access Management) Policy
S3 Bucker policy

Storage Service :
    Block Storage   :
        EBS (Elastic Block Storage) 
        Instance Storage
    Object Storage  :
        S3 (Simple Storage Service) :
            S3 bucket can provide versioning, policies, permissions etc.
            S3 bucket is used to save objects like images, videos, backups, files and logs.

            example :
                If application is running on EC2 instance, we need to save logs on S3 bucket.
                We can backup our SQL/NoSQL database to S3 bucket.

            S3 can have versions. 
            It does not overwrite same file but create a version of it. Which is visible on Version history.
    File Storage    :
        EFS -   For Linux
        FSX -   For Windows

Inbound V/s OutBound    :
    Inbound -
        It is traffic coming to your server.
        ex.,
            Incoming Traffic that server will accept.
            0.0.0.0/0 redirect to port 43 of server.
            
    Outbound -
        It is traffic going out of server.
        ex.,
            Server sent request to other website or APIs to process request.

EC2 (Elastic Cloud Computing)   :
    Service responsible to launching and managing VMs (Virtual Machines) in servers.

    On EC2 you can config.,
    -   OS like linux, Windows
    -   Instance type like CPU, memory
    -   Storage type like EBS volumn, EC2 instance store
    -   SSH for secure connection
    -   Firwall like Security Groups

IP addresses and subnet masks   :
    An IP address consists of two parts:
        Network address — identifies the network segment
        Host address — identifies the specific device within that network

    A subnet mask is used to distinguish the network portion from the host portion of an IP address.
        24  ->  255.255.255.0   
        16  ->  255.255.0.0     
        8   ->  255.0.0.0       
    
    Example.,
        192.168.1.10/24     IPv4 (IP Address with CIDR)
        192.168.1.10        IP Address
        255.255.255.0       Subnet mask

        192.186.1.0         Network Address
        0.0.0.10            Host Address

        NOTE:
            HOW TO CALCULATE NETWORK AND HOST ADDRESS:
            To get Network address, Perform a bitwise AND operation between the IP address and the subnet mask.
            To get Host address, Perform a bitwise AND operation between the IP address and the inverted subnet mask (bitwise NOT of the subnet mask).

    REAL WORLD Example.,
        An office has a Network address 192.168.1.10 and devices have their own IP address like.,
        
        Network: 192.168.10.0/24
            ├── 192.168.10.1 (Router)
            ├── 192.168.10.10 (Printer)
            ├── 192.168.10.20 (Desktop 1)
            ├── 192.168.10.21 (Desktop 2)

VPC (Virtual Private Cloud) :
    It is private network for an application.
    Where you control network by setting IP range, subnets, routing and security settings.

    Here., network IP address, subnetting, Security Groups and NACLs are configured.

Security Groups V/S NACLs (Network Access Control Lists)    :
    Security Groups are applied at instance level.
    While NACLs are applied at subnet level.

    example.,
        Request coming to the EC2 instance are being filter by inbound security groups.
        Later same requests are getting filter agained by NACLs for database access.

    NACLs add extra firewall.

OSI Model Layers    :
    Layer	Layer Name	Function
    7	Application	    Interfaces with user applications (e.g., web browsers, email clients)
    6	Presentation	Translates, encrypts, and compresses data
    5	Session	        Manages connections and sessions between applications
    4	Transport	    Provides reliable data transfer (TCP/UDP)
    3	Network	        Routes data across networks (IP addressing, routing)
    2	Data Link	    Transfers data between adjacent network nodes (MAC addressing, switches)
    1	Physical	    Deals with the transmission of raw bits over the physical medium (cables, electrical signals)

AWS Load Balancer :
    Distribute load evenly to EC2 instances for fault tolrant and availability.
    Checks health of instance and route traffic based on that. 
    Auto-scaling can be achieved by Load Balancer.

    Types:
        Classic Load Balancer       -   Work on OSI Layer 4 (Transport) and Layer 7 (Http)
        Application Load Balancer   -   Works on OSI Layer 7 (Application)
        Network Load Balancer       -   Works on OSI Layer 4 (Transport) 

Lambda Function :
    It is also known as SERVERLESS COMPUTE SERVICE.

    Allows developers to run script/ code without managing servers.
    It is triggered on certain events like S3 upload, api gateway call etc.,

    example.,
        Lambda with DynamoDB and S3 bucket for SERVERLESS DATA PROCESSING:

        Set up steps:
        ->  S3 bucket, IAM, DynamoDB and lambda function.
        ->  S3 event trigger to launch Lambda function.
        ->  Lambda handler script to process data and sent dynamoDB put_item request.
        ->  Monitor using CloudWatch service.
        ->  Batch proceessing to reduce num of API calls to reduce pricing.

RDS (Relational Database Service)   :
    Manages SQL-like realtionship databases like SQL, SQL-server, Oracle etc.

    Set up steps:
        ->  Create DB instance.
        ->  Make sure to make publicly availble.
        ->  Config Securty groups and VPC groups. Add public IP for inbound IP address.
        ->  Make SQL connection using MySQL client or CLI.

    Pros:
        ->  Support Realtional database features like joins, complex realtionship, advance query
        ->  Automated backups by AWS
    Cons:
        ->  Vertical scaling rather than Horizontal scaling 
        ->  Costly for scaling 
        ->  Limited concurrent requests

AWS DynamoDB (NoSQL Database)   :
    Manages DynamoDB databases.

    Pros:
        ->  Low latency (1-9 ms of response time)
        ->  Default Auto-scaling feature
        ->  Flexible schema (No predefined schema)
        ->  serverless
    Cons:
        ->  Limited query 
        ->  No joins or transaction
        ->  Design complexity (Needs to define partition-keys and sort-keys)

AWS KMS (Key Management Service)    :
    It manages the creation, control and management of cryptographic key.

    Flow:
        Key generated with policies and permissions.
        Data in RDS or files in S3 bucket are being encrypted by KMS.
        When user want to decrypt, KMS provides decryption mechanism/
            But KMS checks for policy and permission for user.
            If invalid then data will be encrypted.
            If valid then data will be decrypted text (plain text).
    
    AWS KMS integrated with CloudTrail. User activities are being tracked by loggin and auditing.

AWS SQS (Simple Query Service)  :
    Just name suggest it is a queue. 
    It is introduced for Decoupling.

    Lets see a system without SQS.,
        Web app has Order service and Payment service.
        Payment service need to perform various steps hence it is slow.
        If number of requests spiked, Payment server overloads.
        Resulting in auto-scaling which was not required as process itself was slow.

    With SQS.,
        Each request goes to queue and FIFO rule, each request gets processed.
        Sudden spike to requests will be added to queue. 
        Here Payment service will not overload and auto-scaling won't triggered.
        Auto-scaling will triggered only if queue size get bigger.

AWS SNS (Simple Notification Service)   :
    SNS is decoupling service.

    example.,
        When order is shipped, application has to send messages to Client email, message and Admin update.
        Each step is different request and each step needs its own fault tolrant and retry logic.

        Now, new messaging way are introduced then it will become overhead as we need to perform all same operations for new messaging method.

        Hence, SNS is introduced. Which will accpet request from Order.
        Other messaging service will subscribe to it and SNS will send message to these subscribed services.
        SNS will handle fault tolrant and retries.
        
AWS Step function   :
    Step function is serverless workflow. 

    Pros:
        Decoupling of services.
        Clean code.
        Error and fault tolrant built-in.

    Example.,
        A system which takes an image -> resize it -> save it to dynamoDB -> send confirmation email to User.

        Normal way:
            Upload image to S3 bucket.
            Lambda will resize it.
            Save metadata to DynamoDB.
            Send confirmation email via SNS.
        
        In Step function, automate it by lambda -> dynamoDB -> SNS step.

AWS Route 53    :
    AWS Route 53 is Domain Name Service (DNS).
    It is responsible to redirect request to the nearest server.
    Since AWS end points distributed to edge locations, it is easy to re-route to matching server which result in low latency.
    It also works as Gateway. Hence, it checks health of all server and take decision to make resilient service.

CloudWatch???
AMI ??
EC2 instance store?
Security Groups?